---
layout: post
title: "Getting out and about in Christchurch"
description: A fun walk around Christchurch for labour weekend
headline: "Getting out and about in Christchurch"
modified: 2016-10-21
category: walks
tags: [walks, out&about]
imagefeature: scape.jpg
mathjax: 
chart:
featured: true
---

### Getting out and about in Christchurch


One of the best ways to stay active is to get out and go for a walk and with the weather warming up now is the perfect opportunity to go walking, either by yourself, with a friend or take the whole family.

Walking has many benefits and just a few include; improving circulation, lowering blood pressure and reducing stress.

Walking can help us mentally as well, brightening up our outlook by taking out time just for ourselves.

Living in this beautiful city there are plenty of walking options around from beginner walker right through to advanced. I recently heard about the Scape Art Walkway currently happening in Christchurch City. I went in to try it out and it was a fantastic experience – I recommend everyone to get out and give it a go.

Below is the Scape walkway map and next to it is my recommended route, I’ve changed it slightly to make it less confusing, to include free parking and marking the halfway point at the restart mall, in case you need to refuel.

The Walkway  is about 4km and took me about an hour to complete. I stopped along the way to take photos and look at the art so could definitely be done in faster time, or longer make the walk work for you.

Below are the photos I captured on my walk

<div class="row">
    <div class="twelve columns text-center"><br />
        <iframe class="with-image" src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m24!1m12!1m3!1d5785.248488174717!2d172.61973274962165!3d-43.53102786216455!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m9!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d-43.5291688!2d172.6198293!4m3!3m2!1d-43.5287332!2d172.6275541!5e0!3m2!1sen!2snz!4v1477010879257" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>
</div>

